# crisp-take-home
A financial accounting application that allows users to track, maintain, and review financial accounts and their entries


# Questions and assumptions

Question.  What does it mean to track an account or entry?
Assumption.  As far as I know, accounts and entries do not progress through a set of steps or stages and do not have a life cycle.  So, tracking is not a requirement.

Question.  What does it mean to maintain an account or entry?
Assumption.  Maintaining an account or entry means performing some kind of action.  The only actions defined are create, update and delete.  So maintaining means creating, updating and deleting.

Question.  What does it mean to review an account or entry?
Assumption.  Reviewing means viewing the details.

Question.  What is an account?
Assumption.  An account is a collection of entries with a name, a label and a type.

Question.  What is an account label?
Assumption.  An account label is string containing numbers and dashes.

Question.  Is the account label generated by the application?
Assumption.  No.  The user can put any label they want.

Question.  Is the account label unique?
Assumption.  No.

Question.  What is an account type?
Assumption.  An account type is a named collection of accounts.  Every account belongs to an account type.  The account type does not have any impact on the behavior of accounts and/or entries.

Question.  What is an account entry?
Assumption.  An account entry is an item in an account with a name, an amount and a category.  A category is any user defined string.


# Instructions for PostgreSQL databsae connection

Step 1. Open ./src/main/resources/application.properties

Step 2. Modify line 28.  This is the original line.  Replace carl with your username.

		spring.datasource.username=carl

Setp 3. Modify line 30.  This is the original line.  		Replace the empty password with your password.  Or leave it blank if you have an empty password.

		spring.datasource.password=

# Instructions to install the frontend and backend application and dependencies

1. Unzip the provided archive file
2. Install Java
3. Install maven
4. Install node
5. Install npm
6. From the frontend folder, run npm install


# Instructions to run the frontend and backend applications

BACKEND: Run this command from the folder named backend

    mvn spring-boot:run

FRONTEND: Run this command from the folder named frontend

    npm start


# Database schema

1. Open the file named backend/diagrams/index.html in a web browser.
2. This schema will be automatically created when the application starts.

# Out of scope

1. Security solutions - login, user-scoped data, etc...   As a consequence of this, all users will have full access to view, create, update and delete all accounts and account entries.
2. API versioning support.  As a consequence of this, the backend APIs do not include version numbers in the paths of REST API's nor do they include version numbers in the names of GQL query and mutation field names.
3. Deployment/environment considerations beyond running on a developer laptop.  As a consequence of this, log entries are not redirected to a file.
4. Scalability, reliability, most other -ilities.  As a consequence of this, no effort was made to do any optimizations in any of the 3 layers, frontend, backend and database and no effort was made to bullet proof the code against misuse.  For example, users can create accounts with labels that violate the format of numbers and dashes.

# Deliverables
- [x] Running code
- [ ] Passing test suite
- [ ] Documentation of your code for anything that isn’t self-documenting or clear to a fellow developer
- [x] Documentation of any assumptions that you made while interpreting the requirements
- [ ] Documentation of the architecture and design of your solution
- [ ] Explanation of how your solution could be extended, optimized, or updated to account for other
non-functionals that were not required, e.g. security, API versioning, scalability, reliability, etc.

# User interview highlights

## Data analysis requirements
- [x] It must be possible to aggregate data by categories and time periods (month, quarter and year)
- [ ] An account entry can have some characteristics that makes them more random or less random

## Application sizing and other things that can impact the architecture decisions
- [x] There can be thousands of account entries in one year
- [x] The bank has more than one client machine
- [x] The client machines are cheap and have only 4 GB of RAM and are slow and the IT department gets a lot of tickets about them being slow
- [x] The client machines use Chrome

## General
- The bank has an IT department
- Every account entry can have supporting documentation

# What are we looking for
- [x] Application runs and works
- [x] Consistent UI and UX design
- [x] Well-structured, readable, and maintainable code
- [ ] Unit tests and (optionally) snapshot tests
- [x] Fulfillment of MVP requirements
- [x] Fulfillment of at least some requirements related to the user interviews
- [ ] Quality of the documentation

